---
title: "Npmfix"
excerpt: A Node.js CLI that fixes integrity check issues with NPM packages.
categories:
  - Projects
tags:
  - NPM
---

{% include figure image_path="/assets/images/2018-06-05-npmfix/npmfix.png" alt="Logo." %}

A Node.js CLI that fixes integrity check issues with NPM packages.

## The problem

When:

- You [link NPM packages](https://docs.npmjs.com/cli/link) a lot to speed up development :rocket:
- Integration tests automatically install the package you're developing from a local tarball (not yet published to the registry) :factory:

And then:

- A build server runs CI builds :wrench: :hammer:

You get:

- Integrity check failures in CI builds (error code `EINTEGRITY`).

**Did you know?** NPM makes sure that the checksum of a published package matches the checksum of the package you download (or fetch from your local cache) in order to avoid bad surprises after the installation.
{: .notice--info}

## The causes

In my case, these errors were caused by:

1. **Different tarballs being installed:** if we modify the source code of our package then the tarball we'll build will probably have a different checksum, causing a mismatch with the one registered in `package-lock.json`. This kind of failures happen when installing packages in integration tests project.
2. **Frequently linking/unlinking packages in several projects.** Somehow this can mess with the checksums in `package-lock.json` files. This kind of failures come up when installing packages in your projects.

## Solutions

You could solve these issues by disabling `package-lock.json` files, but this approach comes with downsides:

- You lose the guarantee that build servers and dev machines will install the same versions of packages.
- NPM will take more time to install dependencies because it won't be able to skip metadata resolution anymore.

Integration tests projects don't need these features, so it's a good solution for the first kind of issues.

**Did you know?** Just pass the `--no-package-lock` flag when running `npm i` to prevent the generation of a `package-lock.json` file.
{: .notice--info}

**But what about the other kind of errors?**

I was deleting package lock files and `node_modules` in each project presenting the error, sometimes even cleaning the global NPM cache. Then I reinstalled all the dependencies and pushed the resulting changes to the `package-lock.json` file. Now the triggered CI build would complete successfully.

But the whole process takes some time and I also felt like a human executing a script.

## Automation

So I wrote a Node.js CLI tool to replace me in this tedious task. Npmfix is based on a very simple algorithm:

1. Continue only if the current folder has a package.json file.
2. Delete the `node_modules` folder.
3. Delete the `package-lock.json` file.

This functionality can be extended (e.g. recursive search, perform a global cache clean) by passing flags to the CLI.

{% include figure image_path="/assets/images/2018-06-05-npmfix/cli.png" alt="CLI example." %}

## More

If you want to know more about Npmfix and its usage, visit its [Github repository](https://github.com/labarilem/npmfix).