---
title: "My notes"
excerpt: "A brief history of my approach to note taking."
categories:
  - Projects
tags:
  - Notes
---

A brief history of my approach to note taking.

## High school

While in high school, I was taking lots of [MOOCs](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Massive_open_online_course) (most of them about AI and ML) and reading some technical books, but I did not have a systematic approach to note taking: I used to focus only on exercises and applications.

## Undergrad

My attitude changed as I started attending lessons for an undergraduate degree in mathematics. During that time I found out different ways to efficiently schematize the presented maths theory, but it was mostly *pen and paper* work.

## IT industry

Now that I'm in the IT industry I've come back to ebooks and video lessons, so I decided to take digital notes, which come with several benefits:

- Have you ever forgot something that you took note of? Just upload your notes to the cloud to read them every time you want to.
- The cloud will also help you add new notes to your collection without messy synchronzation processes.
- You can include any kind of hypermedia (e.g. cool diagrams, links to external resources) with ease.
- It's easier to share digital notes with other people.

So I came up with this setup:

- **Notes format**: I'm using markdown with some plugins to quickly write well-formatted and readble notes.
- **Site builder**: Mkdocs with the material[] theme
- **Source control**: Public git repository owned by my personal GitHub account.
- **Hosting**: GitHub Pages[], amazing service which is offering free HTTPS certificates too (thanks to Let's Encrypt[]).

This setups grants all the previously listed benefits, while being *agile* enough to let you write notes on the fly. 

